# Data Modeling with Postgres

## Introduction
A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.
They'd like a data engineer to create a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis, and bring you on the project. Your role is to create a database schema and ETL pipeline for this analysis. You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.

## Project Description
In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on data modeling with Postgres and build an ETL pipeline using Python. To complete the project, you will need to define fact and dimension tables for a star schema for a particular analytic focus, and write an ETL pipeline that transfers data from files in two local directories into these tables in Postgres using Python and SQL.

## Running the Python Scripts

At the terminal:

1. ```python create_tables.py```
2. ```python etl.py```

## Song Dataset

Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
```

And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.

```
{
    "num_songs": 1,
    "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7",
    "artist_latitude": null,
    "artist_longitude": null,
    "artist_location": "",
    "artist_name": "Line Renaud",
    "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1",
    "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff",
    "duration": 152.92036,
    "year": 0
}
```

## Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
```

## Files Description

### data directory
This directory contains two sub directories: 
data/log_data - contains JSON files that are used for songplays, users and time tables
data/song_data - contains JSON files that are used for songs and artitst tables

### create_tables.py
This is a python script that must be run first to connect to the database and creat empty tables

### etl.ipynb
A python Jupyter Notebook that is used to test ETL process

### etl.py
A python script that reads JSON files and inserts data into tables

### sql_queries.py
A python script that defines SQL statments in this project

### test.ipynb
A Python Jupyter Notebook that checks everything works ok